matters. PART II CITIZENSHIP 5. 6. 7. 8. Citizenship at the commencement of the Constitution. Rights of citizenship of certain persons who have migrated to India from Pakistan. Rights of citizenship of certain migrants to Pakistan. Rights of citizenship of certain persons of Indian origin residing outside India. 9. Persons voluntarily acquiring citizenship of a foreign State not to be citizens. 10. 11. Continuance of the rights of citizenship. Parliament to regulate the right of citizenship by law. (ii) Contents ARTICLES PART III FUNDAMENTAL RIGHTS General 12. 13. Definition. Laws inconsistent with or in derogation of the fundamental rights. Right to Equality 14. Equality before law. 15. Prohibition of discrimination on grounds of religion, race, caste, sex or place of birth. Equality of opportunity in matters of public employment. Abolition of Untouchability. Abolition of titles. Right to Freedom 16. 17. 18. 19. 20. 21. 21A. 22. Protection of certain rights regarding freedom of speech, etc. Protection in respect of conviction for offences. Protection of life and personal liberty. Right to education. Protection against arrest and detention in certain cases. Right against Exploitation 23. 24. Prohibition of traffic in human beings and forced labour. Prohibition of employment of children in factories, etc. Right to Freedom of Religion 25. 26. 27. 28. Freedom of conscience and free profession, practice and propagation of religion. Freedom to manage religious affairs. Freedom as to payment of taxes for promotion of any particular religion. Freedom as to attendance at religious instruction or religious worship in certain educational institutions. (iii) Contents ARTICLES Cultural and Educational Rights 29. 30. [31. Protection of interests of minorities. Right of minorities to establish and administer educational institutions. Compulsory acquisition of property —Omitted.] Saving of Certain Laws 31A. 31B. 31C. [31D. Saving of Laws providing for acquisition of estates, etc. Validation of